(on "The Eiffel Tower")
1. What *signifieds* attach to the *signifier* of the Tower? (see p. 4)
2. Among all the implications of the Tower, Barthes gives two special emphasis: the Tower as spectacle, as a thing to be looked at, and the Tower as a tool of sorts for looking.  Why is this pair so significant?  What are some of the tensions or problems associated with this pair?
3. What does RB mean that the tower “does structuralism” on p. 9?

----

(on "The Death of the Author")
1. What are some of the ways Barthes problematizes the (very commonsensical) idea that a novel by Toni Morrison, for example, is full of words "spoken" by Morrison herself?
2. What features of the modernist writing of Mallarme, Valery, and Proust in the early 20th century foreground problems of authorship and force readers to think differently about the relationship between writers and the texts they produce?
3. At the bottom of 1269, Barthes all but name-checks de Saussure's linguistic theory. How does Barthes' idea of the "death of the Author" relate to de Saussure's idea of utterances ("parole") being governed by a silent, absent, yet powerful set of rules and structures ("langue")?
4. Why does Barthes us the terms "scriptor" and "text" rather than the most customary "author" and "book"? What changes does he intend to accompany this change in names?
5. How does the reader's role change, according to Barthes, once we recognize the "death of the Author"? What does he mean by the idea that the "reader is the space on which all the quotations that make up a writing are inscribed"?

----

(on "From Work to Text" [n.b.: **not assigned** Spr 23])
1. What is the "change" that Barthes refers to as the occasion for this essay?
2. What is a "text" and what is a "work"? Why does the difference matter?
3. Is "text" something that stems from the work of the writer or from some other source? How does a "text" avoid being a "work"? How does it get its textiness?
4. What are some of the ways reading changes in the ambiance of the "text"? What pleasures are associate with each mode? What are the political implications of reading "text"?
5. Near the end of the essay, Barthes claims that the "text" is related to "play ... in all of its polysemy." What are some implications of this linkage?
