1. The subtitle for Halberstam's intro is "masculinity without men." What is Halberstam's point in this phrase, which flouts common sense and borders on the oxymoronic? What's the value, from their standpoint, in positing a "masculinity without men," or, better, an exploration of masculinity that does not assume that biological maleness is a necessary minimum for possessing true masculinity?
2. How does Halberstam read the familiar figure of the "tomboy," the masculine female child? What are some of the tensions bound up in this figure, in their reading? What possibilites does the "tomboy" open up for individual liberation and for more collective and abstract thinking about gender boundaries? What are some limits that the "tomboy," both as an individual identity or gender performance and as a broader social formation, runs into, according to Halberstam?
3. What does Halberstam mean by "queer methodologies"? What is distinctive about the methodology she proposes for her book? What will be her "sources" or "primary texts," and what will be some of the disciplinary techniques she will use to analyze and explain them?
4. How does Halberstam critique some prominent recent attempts to analyze "masculinities" within gender studies, women's studies, and queer studies? What alternative does she propose to these attempts?
5. In 2024, I think we're all familiar with what Halberstam calls "The Bathroom Problem," given the prominence of this space in today's polarized political climate. Why is the public bathroom such a charged and problematic space with regard to gender? What are the different challenges faced by gender-nonconforming men and women in these spaces? What are some of the differences faced by different kinds of men and women that Halberstam notes? Between the spaces of the men's and the women's bathrooms?
6. Near the end of this piece, taken from a book published in 1998, Halberstam asks "why have we not begun to count and name the genders that are clearly emerging at this time?" What has happened in the intervening 25+ years? How have ideas about gender, including "female masculinity," changed in that span of time? What do you think Halberstam thinks about these changes?
