[n.b. all page numbers refer to the **Second Edition** of the *Norton Anthology of Theory and Criticism*]

1. What is the problem, for Johnson, of reading BB allegorically, that is, by reading each character as the simple embodiment of an abstract quality (good, evil, judgment, etc.)? Bonus points if you use “chiasmus” in your answer!
2. What kind of reader is Billy? What kind is Claggart? How does Johnson use Saussure’s theory of signifier/signified to clarify this difference?
3. How does Billy demonstrate the impossibility of being a purely “innocent” reader through his actions (2324 ff.)? What are some ways, in other words, that Billy “plots,” despite his supposed innocence?
4. How does Johnson use Melville’s figure of the “space between” to describe a) Claggart’s “evil” character and b) the workings of narrative more broadly (2327-28)? Why does Melville “miss” what Billy “hits”: namely, Claggart’s essence?
5. On 2229-30, Johnson reads the plot of BB against the grain: that is, as if Claggart were right and Billy were guilty of a willful mutiny. What is the point of this? What does it say about BB that either reading is equally defensible?
6. How does Captain Vere differ from both Billy and Claggart as a “reader” (2331-2)? How does Johnson describe the relationship of each of them to language?
7. Vere functions in the plot of BB as the judge of Billy’s actions; what, for Johnson, is the reader supposed to judge (2333-4)? Note: this is where we hit the really tough sledding in Johnson’s argument, so hang on!
8. What grounds Vere’s judgment on Billy? Put differently, what are the interpretive frames that Vere must choose from, and what effects result from choosing one or the other?
9. How does Johnson distinguish, on one hand, a “difference within” and, on the other, a “difference between” in her discussion of Vere’s act of judging? What does Melville’s text tell us about these two different kinds of differences?
10. What does the example of Vere suggest about our commonsensical notion that judges are “above politics”: that is, that they decide on guilt/innocence independently of the practical effects of this judgement (2336-7)?
11. Note Johnson’s use of puns throughout the essay: striking, execution, marplot and plot, partial. What is the effect of this playfulness in such a serious and demanding text? What might be the purpose behind this play?
