1.	Why does Mulvey want to use this essay as a “weapon” to “destroy pleasure”?  I thought pleasure was good! 
2.	Why is gender so central to cinema, in Mulvey’s view?  What is it about sexual difference that helps to explain why cinema looks and works the way it does?
3.	What is “scopophilia,” and what is scopophilic about going to the movies?  What is it about the medium of film that facilitates scopophilic looking?
4.	I’ll phrase this as a note and not a question, since it’s rough sledding.  Note that there are two modes of scopophilic looking: LM gives these various names, but the first involves the (male) looker examining the (female) object of desire, and the second involves the (male) looker identifying the (male) ego-ideal (i.e., an idealized version of one’s self).  Note that Mulvey ties #2 to Lacan’s theory of the “mirror stage”: I’ll unpack this in class on Monday.
5.	What’s the difference between the scopophilia of the cinema and that of other patriarchal art forms (e.g., a striptease or dramatic play)?  Why is the cinema particularly suited to serving the needs of patriarchy?
6.	Why is it that men tend not to be exhibited as scopophilic objects in the cinema?
7.	What role do men play in the “division of labor” that structures cinema as characters on the screen?
8.	Mulvey points out that, in psychoanalytic theory, the image of “woman” connotes lack, most fundamentally the lack of a penis, the basis of sexual differentiation.  How does this connotation, this notion of woman-as-lack, threaten the pleasure of scopophilia in the cinema?
9.	What are the “two avenues” LM lays out to overcoming the problem of woman-as-lack mentioned above?  How do the examples from Sternberg and Hitchcock help illustrate these avenues?
10.	What are the “three different looks associated with the cinema”?  How does the dominant model of cinema manipulate these “looks,” emphasizing one and effacing the others, to serve patriarchal ends?  What might an alternative, anti-patriarchal cinema do to subvert this dominant model?
